There's this curious little scene in Bechdel's Fun Home where she encounters a snake while out on a trip.
Why does Bechdel include this particular moment in her memoir?
Well, Bechdel uses various allusions in this scene, which may serve to tell a bigger story. 
What is Bechdel trying to say by describing and depicting all the emotions Alison feels during the discovery? (I'll refer to her younger self as Alison and her present self as Bechdel, the narrator).
Here, Alison walks with her shoulders hunched forward and her eyes cast down, evoking a feeling of shame.
Alison is abashed because she wasn’t able to fire Bill’s gun when it was simple and easy for him when he was their age.
So Bechdel tells us that Alison is ashamed for being unable to follow the footsteps of the older generation.
Then Alison finds the snake.
Bechdel indicates that at the time she was shocked by the length of the snake; She did not know it could grow seven feet long.
She runs away, presumably in fear.
Alison is also shocked when Bill takes out his gun to find the snake. She is shocked by the response and how badly it could end for the snake.
So it makes sense that she feels relieved when they don't find the snake.
Alison is also somewhat embarrassed that it was gone. She had made a big fuss about the snake but there was no danger, no trace of the situation.
Here on the next page, Bechdel points out the snake’s role as a phallus. She uses the snake to represent the male penis.
By using this allusion, Bechdel uses Alison’s encounter with the snake to represent her, presumably first, encounter with the male penis. 
Perhaps it is an instance where she comes close to heterosexual sex. Or perhaps it is all theoretical.
Either way, this is rather significant because we do know that Bechdel comes out as lesbian later on. What is revealed to us through her emotions? 
Alison is abashed, embarrassed that she cannot do what society expects to be within her ability. She isn’t supposed to run from something that she’s expected to like. 
Alison is relieved after she doesn’t see the snake anymore, reflecting her discomfort around male sex anatomy. 
And here, Alison lookss concerned. She describes the events as a failed "unspoken initiation rite”. The losing of virginity could be said to be an initiation rite, which she fails.
After failing it she falls into a “postlapsarian melancholy,” citing that life’s possibilities were no longer infinite. Alison is bothered by her reaction and feels that her future could be affected by her discovery that her sexuality did not fit society’s norms.
Notice how only she seems to be concerned, while everyone else is unbothered. This is a problem only she is facing.
What else does the snake signify to Alison? 
Not only is the snake a phallus, but according to Bechdel, there is a lesser seen feminine aspect to the snake.
In Ojibwa and Pueblo Native American tribes, snakes were highly regarded, a symbol for fertility and rebirth.
In Greek Mythology, the snake is associated with Medusa. Medusa was shunned by society; She was once beautiful, then cursed ugly.
It is this undifferentiation of the snake that Bechdel points out. Is it a masculine or feminine symbol?
This question of masculinity or femininity can be extended to Alison herself.
Alison's body here is ambiguous. Can we tell if it's the body of a male or female? She juxtaposes it with her brother in the back, whom she looks very similar to.
Here as well.
Bechdel deliberately reinforces this idea of non-duality to convey the uncertainty she possessed about her own identity. She didn't sway one way or the other.
Bechdel also described the snake as a “vexingly ambiguous archetype”; Her unclear identity also frustrated her at times.
The snake represents the very idea of her sexuality and nonconforming gender.
Perhaps thats why she was so shocked about Bill's response to the snake, which could represent society's harsh criticism of the very ideas it stands for.
Bechdel also alludes to the snake from Adam + Eve just by using "postlapsarian" (meaning after the fall of mankind, exiled from Eden).
The snake is a temptor, is evil, is the devil himself. 
But look at how innocent it looks here, drinking water. More ambiguity?
But on the topic of Adam and Eve, If Bechdel's father had seen a snake, could we say the temptation of the snake led him to express his homosexuality in rather illegal ways (Minor grooming). Is the snake, the temptation, his sexuality?
Just as Adam and Eve see a snake prior to their exile, her father could have seen a snake, right before he left Alison’s world.
It's interesting, as Alison would have seen the snake as she first discovered her sexuality while her father would have seen the snake at his end.
Notice the father's book here...
Is that a snake on the cover? That particular formation of a snake with its tail in its mouth is called an Ouroboros.
Look! The title! (Worm in Old English could also mean snake, serpent, or dragon)
This book was a fantasy novel written in 16th century English despite being published in 1922.
The Ourboros is a symbol of eternal cyclicity; The connection of the beginning and the end.
This is the point that Bechdel makes; Alison's beginning (her coming out as lesbian) coincides with her father's end.
Bechdel further solidifies this through the cyclical nature of these panels. (Mom, Dad, Mom, Dad… )
And this smooth transition supports Bechdel's cyclic theme she has going; The two points in time are visually connected.
How does this second point in time connect with the first?
Here, Bechdel recalls seeing a man-like woman that she calls unsettling. 
She uses the same word here with the snake.
Furthermore, the woman's hair is almost snake-like. She embodies ambiguity.
There may even be a Medusa allusion in there, as her appearance may shock society- turn them into stone.
Alison is captivated and sustained through this vision.
But not her father. He recognizes what she stands for.
He questions Alison's intentions, and very much disapproves.
Quite hypocritical, as he dressed like a woman in his youth!
Perhaps he despises that part of himself and doesn't want Alison to go through the same societal challenges that come with it.
Bechdel says the woman "haunted" her father because he was reminded of his own situation. But he had to hide himself while the woman did not.
Young Alison lies about herself like her father.
Something interesting to point out is how she calls it a "vision". It's almost like an out of world experience.
Because this takes place in urban Philadelphia, the society there would be very different from what she is used to. 
We see Alison in the car to Philadelphia...
Then getting in the car to leave. It creates a beginning and an end, a tiny loop that just adds to the cyclic vibe.
To conclude, Bechdel makes many deliberate choices in how she depicts herself and her interactions with the snake on her trip.
She uses the snake as a symbol and metaphor for ambiguity, nonduality, and her unsettling identity.
Society looks down upon such ideas and pressures people like Alison and her father to hide themselves.
But where Alison’s father and Alison have hidden themselves, Present day Alison Bechdel does not shun that part of her.
Her father’s death, the end of his lies, may have gone hand in hand with the beginning of Alison’s truth.
Bechdel seems to suggest it was a sacrifice, a necessary penance for Alison to live the life he never lived.
But a coincidence, nontheless.